doc: add safety.md in docs (#23999)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/safety.md

# SECURITY

This document describes the security recommendations and issues that can be helpful for users of Bitcoin Core.

Download Bitcoin Core only from below links, verify the integrity of the download before using:

https://bitcoincore.org/en/download/

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases

> Downloading Bitcoin Core from untrusted sources can result in using a [malware](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/107738/) that can steal your bitcoin and compromise your computer.

Reviewer: Maybe explicitly mention where to find official RCs, and caution that any solicitation for private testing is likely malware (though we want to be careful not to dissuade users from heloing actually debug issues, so how it's phrased should consider that too)

Author: Sure. Will add more information today.

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

### P2P

Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Difference in DNS seed and Seed node: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/17410/

> Having multiple connections to the network is fundamental to safety against eclipse attacks. If a user configured the node to only have outbound block-relay-only connections, they wouldn't be participating in addr relay, so wouldn't have a diverse addrman to identify candidates to connect to. It is suggested to have at least 10 outbound connections.

Reviewer: Only 8 are expected, and only 8 are made normally.

Author: 8 full relay and 2 block relay?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, 8 full relay and 2 block relay.

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

> `assumevalid=1` skips validation for scripts. All scripts in transactions included in blocks that are ancestors of the _assumevalid_ block are assumed to be valid. While this does introduce a little bit of trust, people can independently check that block is part of the main chain.

Reviewer: The only way to independently check the block is part of the main chain, is to run without assumevalid...

Author: This commit is outdated. Please suggest changed in latest commit if I could improve something in this line.

Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

### RPC

> The JSON-RPC interface is intended for local access. By default it will only accept connections from localhost, but it can be configured to be accessed for a wider netmask; e.g. a trusted LAN network. Bitcoin Core does not allow anyone to connect to the rpcport. You will need to explicitly allow an IP address to connect to it by using the `rpcallowip=<ip>` option in the _bitcoin.conf_ file. If you set it to 0.0.0.0, it will be open to all IP addresses, but this is not recommended as it is not secure.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand "Bitcoin Core does not allow anyone to connect to the rpcport". Clearly it can be configured to, or RPC would be useless?

Author: It can be configured to but does not allow by default. It was copied from this answer: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/69097/

Reviewer 2: Ok, then say that? The phrase as is is very confusing.

# SECURITY

This document describes the security recommendations and issues that can be helpful for users of Bitcoin Core.

ℹ️ There is no patch for human stupidity.

> Download Bitcoin Core only from below links, verify the integrity of the download before using:

Author: Agree. I will add more information here in next update.

> Download Bitcoin Core only from below links, verify the integrity of the download before using:

Author: Added one line in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

https://bitcoincore.org/en/download/

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases

Downloading Bitcoin Core from untrusted sources can result in using a [malware](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/107738/) that can steal your bitcoin and compromise your computer.

### P2P

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Author: This has a basis and you can read more about it in below links:

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23542

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23306

> Non-listening nodes have almost the exact same attack surface as listening ones

This is NOT true

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Reviewer 3: #23542 is currently in the state of an unmerged proposal.
Until this change in policy is merged, included in releases, and adopted by a large number of nodes (which will take time), it would be detrimental for the nework if many existing nodes witched to non-standard ports, because other nodes would avoid making outbound connections to them. Therefore, I don't think this suggestion should be included at this point in time.

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Reviewer 2: I've unresolved this.

As things are for now, and at least until #23542 is merged and in a release that is widely adopted on the network, using a non-default port is pretty much equivalent to disabling listening entirely. Outbound connections have a very strong bias away from such ports. That may change, but we shouldn't recommending it until the network actually has this policy adopted.

Regarding difference between listening and non-listening: non-listening nodes aren't as susceptible to eclipse attacks (which typically require making connections to the victim). There are also privacy differences, as controlling your outbound connections, and even just making fewer connections, reduces how much an attacker can infer about transactions propagating through you, and originating from you.

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Author: > #23542 is currently in the state of an unmerged proposal.

I like the assumption that this PR will be merged before #23542 :)

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Reviewer 2: I don't assume that. But I also don't assume that this PR will only be merged in 2 years, when #23542 may be common on the network.

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Reviewer 4: At this point in time changing the port to one that is non default is the worst of both worlds; you both will receive absolutely no incoming traffic from legitimate nodes, any you do receive will be malicious / modified software.

> Using non-default ports and non-listening nodes can improve security.

Author: It is removed

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Author: > Nobody has ever run their own DNS seed in order to bootstrap a synching node, the suggestion is complete nonsense.

I have not written history in this sentence. Anyone CAN run DNS seed using https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin-seeder

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Reviewer 4: Just because you could doesn't mean anybody has, or should. There is no reasonable person who would suggest a user run their own DNS seed, a system that requires large resources and setup cost, in order to synd their own node.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Reviewer 3: It also makes no sense, because it just shifts the problem of bootstrapping to the seeder code without improving the solution.
I don't think the seeder does anything else than ask other dns seeds to bootstrap itself ([code](https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin-seeder/blob/33d0400d0c1026de84f29c32716849ee4a86828e/main.cpp#L421-L444)). If all other DNS seeds feed you malicious IPs, you have gained nothing by running your own DNS seed as opposed to just running a node.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Author: There are two things shared in doc. 1. Running own DNS seed. It makes sense because you won't trust default DNS seeds. 2. Seed node can be used for bootstrapping. Difference is explained in the link.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Reviewer 3: > 1. Running own DNS seed. It makes sense because you won't trust default DNS seeds.

Disagree. I don't think the sentence  "You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping." is helpful, because even if I ran a DNS seed using https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin-seeder as suggested, this DNS seed would also need to bootstrap somehow to get going initially. 

As indicated by the link in my previous post, the bootstrapping mechanism implemented in the DNS seeder not only queries other existing DNS seeds similar to bitcoin core -  so you still "trust default DNS seeds" - but is otherwise inferior to the one used by core (no fixed seeds as fallback, outdated hardcoded DNS seed list) - which makes sense because bitcoin-seeder is just not meant to be used for the use case you are suggesting here.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Reviewer 2: Running your own DNS seed makes no sense, for multiple reasons:
* Seeds are just a way to find an initial connection to the network. If you don't believe the DNS seeds hardcoded in Bitcoin Core are trustworthy enough for that, you should manually make connections to nodes you do trust (using `-seednode` / `-addnode`). You can also disable the DNS seeds (`-dnsseed=0`) in that case.
* Bitcoin Core offers no functionality to using your own DNS seed.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Author: >Disagree. I don't think the sentence "You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping." is helpful, because even if I ran a DNS seed using https://github.com/sipa/bitcoin-seeder as suggested, this DNS seed would also need to bootstrap somehow to get going initially.

@mzumsande 

Yes. Sentence can be improved and I am going to add/update a few things but did not because wanted to spend less time doing pull requests on weekend. Looks like this PR has lot of interest from reviewers so I will do it in next few hours.

The attack explained in doc assumes most of the DNS seeds are safe but they might get compromised at some point. I am not sure about the code you shared @sipa can explain that better as some domains dont even resolve to anything in that. Example: bitseed.xf2.org However even if we assume these are used once in a lifetime it won't be an issue using 1-2 or get IPs based on your own crawlers.

> Running your own DNS seed makes no sense, for multiple reasons:

> Seeds are just a way to find an initial connection to the network. If you don't believe the DNS seeds hardcoded in Bitcoin Core are trustworthy enough for that, you should manually make connections to nodes you do trust (using -seednode / -addnode). You can also disable the DNS seeds (-dnsseed=0) in that case.

> Bitcoin Core offers no functionality to using your own DNS seed.

@sipa `-seednode` thing is explained in the link and mentioned one word but I can rephrase it in a better way. Will add `-dnsseed=0` on next update. 

Bitcoin Core does not offer functionality to use own DNS seed but there has to be one paragraph about trust assumption even if I remove the part that suggested running own DNS seed which is technically possible as there can be several ways to bootstrap.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I definitely agree with explaining the trust assumptions around DNS seeds, and that one may want to avoid them. But "running your own DNS seed" is pointless as a solution for it.

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. You can use own DNS seed for bootstrapping.

Author: It is removed

Difference in DNS seed and Seed node: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/17410/

Having multiple connections to the network is fundamental to safety against eclipse attacks. If a user configured the node to only have outbound block-relay-only connections, they wouldn't be participating in addr relay, so wouldn't have a diverse addrman to identify candidates to connect to. It is suggested to have at least 10 outbound connections.

> `assumevalid=1` skips validation for scripts. All scripts in transactions included in blocks that are ancestors of the _assumevalid_ block are assumed to be valid. While this does introduce a little bit of trust, people can independently check that block is part of the main chain.

Author: Fixed the syntax in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23999/commits/921d6da4213acb53c38f11f8de97d4a74043ed03

> Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Author: There is some misunderstanding about the context of other sources. There are some amazing posts on all of them however it's not organised, some of it is outdated and not maintained, contains misleading information in some posts etc.

> Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Author: BGP hijacking is a known issue and I could not find better examples while drafting pull request related to bitcoin.

> Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Reviewer 5: I think @fanquake's point is you should avoid links in this doc. Bring in/summarize the information that is relevant/useful/important from those links to this doc and don't include the links. The motivation for this doc is you don't want to refer people to these links for various reasons (e.g. mutability) but then include them in this doc which needs to be maintained (assuming it is merged). Personally I don't mind so much StackExchange links but Twitter, Reddit, Wired links would be a definite no from me.

> Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Author: Removed most of the links and BGP line is completely removed in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Reviewer: While that's true of someone providing you with blocks, it isn't true for the chainstate. If you use a compromised chainstate, you may never find out until you have a financial loss.

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Author: > Somebody providing you a different, valid chain state isn't really any concern

This is NOT true

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, the concern is only about the chainstate, as that contains post-validated information. If you accept a chainstate from someone else, they can make your node convinced about anything (coins that don't exist/do exist, ...).

There is no problem with accepting just blocks from someone (IF combined with a `-reindex-chainstate`, or just an empty chainstate; in both cases the blocks will still be validated).

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Author: I agree with sipa and luke-jr and could not find anything to change so its still the same thing. Also it was mostly copied from an answer on stackexchange by acho101 to avoid issues in misunderstanding.

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Reviewer 4: The text then remains incorrect; there's no concern about somebody giving you a *valid* copy of the chainstate, quite literally as it would be _valid_ and everything is totally fine, the concern is about an _invalid_ chainstate as this is undetectable and can lead to losses.

> Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

Author: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/63860/

### RPC

The JSON-RPC interface is intended for local access. By default it will only accept connections from localhost, but it can be configured to be accessed for a wider netmask; e.g. a trusted LAN network. Bitcoin Core does not allow anyone to connect to the rpcport. You will need to explicitly allow an IP address to connect to it by using the `rpcallowip=<ip>` option in the _bitcoin.conf_ file. If you set it to 0.0.0.0, it will be open to all IP addresses, but this is not recommended as it is not secure.

If you have a need to access it over an untrusted network like the internet, tunnel it through technology specifically designed for that, such as stunnel (SSL) or a VPN.

[Executable, network access, authentication and string handling](/doc/json-rpc-interface.md#security)

> [Multi user systems](https://medium.com/@lukedashjr/cve-2018-20587-advisory-and-full-disclosure-a3105551e78b)

Reviewer 6: > Multi user systems

`Multi user systems` doesn't provide any context, and I'd rather not have us linking to personal medium accounts.

Reviewer: A better description would be helpful, but objecting because it's on my Medium account is nonsense - it's no less appropriate than linking to Wired, Stack Exchange, or even bitcoincore.org for that matter.

Reviewer 5: I disagree (certainly in comparison to say Wired, Twitter, Reddit etc). Bitcoin StackExchange has maintained immutable links and remained free to view for a decade. It is widely used and contributed to and maintained by contributors to this repo (Murch, sipa, achow101, meshcollider etc). I'm sympathetic to view that we should avoid all links in a doc but if we were to include any bitcoincore.org and Bitcoin StackExchange seem like obvious choices. I feel less strongly on personal websites of long term contributors but even they introduce single points of failure.

Author: I will write a Q&A on stackexchange for same thing and include the link

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to summarize the suggestions here inline.

Author: Done in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23999/commits/317ff4e931a07c18b91ff09632956f449c9aaa6e

[#12763](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/12763) added the RPC whitelisting feature that helps enforce application policies for services being built on top of Bitcoin Core. It suggested to not connect your Bitcoin node to arbitrary services, reduce risk and prevent unintended access.

### Wallet

[Encrypting the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#encrypting-the-wallet)

[Backing Up the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#backing-up-the-wallet)

> Do not buy _wallet.dat_ files from anywhere. There are several websites that sell such files to newbies. You can read more about the issue here: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/77#issuecomment-721927922

Author: Can remove it and maybe add some relevant information here that was shared by achow101.

> Do not buy _wallet.dat_ files from anywhere. There are several websites that sell such files to newbies. You can read more about the issue here: https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/77#issuecomment-721927922

Author: Done in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23999/commits/317ff4e931a07c18b91ff09632956f449c9aaa6e

> Understanding the difference between legacy and descriptor wallets:

Reviewer 6: > Understanding the difference between legacy and descriptor wallets:

Without anything too specific here, this seems like it would be better suited to generic wallet type documentation.

Author: Understanding the difference in security of these two types of wallets is important

Reviewer: I don't see how.

Reviewer 2: I think the following suggestion would make more sense:

* Be careful with RPC commands like `dumpwallet`, `dumpprivkey`, and `listdescriptors` with the "private" argument set to true. These commands reveal private keys, which should never be shared with third parties.

Author: Looks good. Will add this in next update.

Author: Added in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23999/commits/317ff4e931a07c18b91ff09632956f449c9aaa6e

There is no XPUB in legacy wallets, `dumpwallet` will return private keys. `listdescriptors` can be used to get XPUB and XPRV for descriptor wallets.

### Other

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: > As this is the purpose for the creation of this document

No the purpose this pull request and docs is mentioned in OP

> Almost no system could be sufficiently "locked down" to prevent those commands from being used in the way which is being claimed to be malicious

This is NOT true.

Some people prefer to use restrictions and alerts in systems, networks etc.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 2: It would be better to instead just have a generic warning to be careful about advice to configure your nodes by untrustworthy sources. If a malicious actor can convince your to modify your configuration, they can probably also convince you to open up your RPC server to them, letting them steal your money.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: Disagree with this and @wpeckr agrees that config like `rpcbind` should be removed or restricted because people follow wrong things. So I don't understand this contradiction.

There are several other things that are already shared in other issues and pull requests which I don't want to repeat.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 2: I'm not talking about rpcbind. That's a separate discussion to be had.

I don't think there is anything special about the -notify* commands that warrants calling them out here. The concern is users using configuration they don't understand. *That* is what we should be educating about. Perhaps we can include some examples of dangerous configurations/commands (like the dump/import commands I've mentioned elsewhere, or a list of RPC commands that may affect funds (send*), ...). But I worry about giving an impression of exhaustiveness even.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: > I'm not talking about rpcbind. That's a separate discussion to be had.

Its one of the config

> I don't think there is anything special about the -notify* commands that warrants calling them out here.

We cannot trigger scripts based on events in bitcoin core with any other command line parameter.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 2: > We cannot trigger scripts based on events in bitcoin core with any other command line parameter.

I'm well aware. I don't think that's particularly relevant for security, if users are willing to make arbitrary changes they don't understand.

I'm not saying this isn't a concern, I'm saying this isn't a concern that can be addressed, if you're operating in the assumption that users will make configuration changes or run commands they don't understand.

To use an analogy. There is an estate with a walled garden around it and cameras for security. Inside the estate is a mansion, with a terrace. The door to the terrace is often left unlocked in summer while people walk in and out. You're complaining about the fact that people leave the door unlocked, which, while true, isn't a concern because the wall and cameras are supposed to keep attackers out. If the wall and cameras didn't work, there are probably tons of other ways of getting inside the house, because the whole thing relies on it; the window is often left unlocked too.

The wall is users knowing that making configuration changes they don't understand can be dangerous. The terrace door is the notify commands. The summer is the advanced users who have a need for those commands. The window left open is running a "sendtoaddress" command to empty their wallet.

Yes, the notify commands are special in that they're the only ones that will make Bitcoin Core execute something else. So what? There are tons of other ways a user can be harmed if they don't understand what they're doing. We should be educating people about the risk of unknown commands; not calling these config options out specifically. Doing so might even have the opposite effect: people may think that *anything but* these options cannot cause harm.

I'm not against mentioning these options as an *example* of something that can go wrong if used without understanding. But such a list would include many more commands and options.

Please unresolve this.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: > I'm not against mentioning these options as an example of something that can go wrong if used without understanding. But such a list would include many more commands and options.

Other section was kept for such things. I mentioned one thing that I recently observed. 

> Please unresolve this.

I would unresolve this. However, *notify options are not secure as implemented in Bitcoin Core.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 2: > I would unresolve this. However, *notify options are not secure as implemented in Bitcoin Core.

That's your opinion. I disagree, and apparently many others do too.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: I have rephrased the whole thing based on IRC conversation. Let me know if that looks good?

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 4: > *notify config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

It's functionally unchanged as far as I can tell.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: > The issue it with the concept of telling people that this is a "issue" to begin with, not the wording.

Sorry I have not used any financial applications that allow such things, with no restrictions and no documentation. This is a known issue for some people and not an issue for others. The compromise can be to rephrase things in a way that does not look misleading but helps users. I have tried my best to write same thing in different ways in different pull requests and we can continue this discussion forever without changing our opinion.

Restricting scripts is not a weird thing because I have seen such things used in PowerShell with `Set-ExecutionPolicy`. Creating alerts for malware that might try to connect with attacker's domain, IP etc. is also not a bad advice and most of the people already use firewalls. Macros in word allow executing anything but even that has some restrictions or options to disable/enable.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 4: > Sorry I have not used any financial applications that allow such things, with no restrictions and no documentation. 

This is a straw man, this is about Bitcoin, not other software. 

> This is a known issue for some people and not an issue for others. 

This is not a known issue. As has been extensively discussed, you are the only person here who has opened multiple pull requests and issues about a completely absurd situation that no reasonable person could consider problematic. You are not a martyr, you are not fighting against the tyranny of other contributors, or whatever you think is going on here. You are simply incorrect and are being too childish to admit it. 

> Macros in word allow executing anything but even that has some restrictions or options to disable/enable.

Word is an application that allows end users to open documents from arbitrary sources, it bears absolutely no relevance to your argument.

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Be careful while using these options and ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Author: > This is not a known issue.

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/23395#issuecomment-956356904

> you are the only person here who has opened multiple pull requests and issues about a completely absurd situation that no reasonable person could consider problematic.

There is nothing absurd or unreasonable in this. Feel free to NACK this PR if you don't agree with the changes.

> You are not a martyr, you are not fighting against the tyranny of other contributors, or whatever you think is going on here. You are simply incorrect and are being too childish to admit it.

> Word is an application that allows end users to open documents from arbitrary sources, it bears absolutely no relevance to your argument.

It does because of the feature in context

This is non sense.

# SECURITY

This document describes the security recommendations and issues that can be helpful for users of Bitcoin Core.

> Download Bitcoin Core only from below links, verify the integrity of the download before using:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Download Bitcoin Core only from the links listed below and verify the integrity of the download before using:
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

https://bitcoincore.org/en/download/

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/releases

Downloading Bitcoin Core from untrusted sources can result in using a [malware](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/107738/) that can steal your bitcoin and compromise your computer.

### P2P

> DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. If you don't believe the DNS seeds hardcoded in Bitcoin Core, you should manually make connections to nodes you do trust (using `-seednode` / `-addnode`). You can also disable the DNS seeds (`-dnsseed=0`) in that case.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
DNS seeds are used for bootstrapping the P2P network. If one of the domains used for default DNS seeds is hacked, this can impact nodes. A node checks 3 seeds at a time, so it would require coordination for a malicious seed to affect the network. If you prefer not to trust the DNS seeds hardcoded in Bitcoin Core, you should manually make connections to nodes you do trust (using `-seednode` / `-addnode`). You can also disable the DNS seeds (`-dnsseed=0`) in that case.
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

Difference in DNS seed and Seed node: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/17410/

> Having multiple connections to the network is fundamental to safety against eclipse attacks. If a user configured the node to only have outbound block-relay-only connections, they wouldn't be participating in addr relay, so wouldn't have a diverse addrman to identify candidates to connect to. It is suggested to have at least 10 outbound connections.

Reviewer 7: Suggest using either the second person ("you") or third person ("a user") consistently throughout the document.

 ```suggestion
Having multiple connections to the network is fundamental to safety against eclipse attacks. If you configure your node to only have outbound block-relay-only connections, they wouldn't be participating in addr relay, so wouldn't have a diverse addrman to identify candidates to connect to. It is suggested to have at least 10 outbound connections.
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

Known incidents when BGP hijacking was used to exploit Bitcoin users: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/isp-bitcoin-theft/

Do not use blocks and chainstate from unknown sources. Attackers could be providing you a false blockchain, i.e. one that is valid but not the blockchain that all other nodes are following.

### RPC

The JSON-RPC interface is intended for local access. By default it will only accept connections from localhost, but it can be configured to be accessed for a wider netmask; e.g. a trusted LAN network. You will need to explicitly allow an IP address to connect to it by using the `rpcallowip=<ip>` option in the _bitcoin.conf_ file. If you set it to 0.0.0.0, it will be open to all IP addresses, but this is not recommended as it is not secure.

If you have a need to access it over an untrusted network like the internet, tunnel it through technology specifically designed for that, such as stunnel (SSL) or a VPN.

[Executable, network access, authentication and string handling](/doc/json-rpc-interface.md#security)

> CVE-2018–20587 is an Incorrect Access Control vulnerability that affects all currently released versions of Bitcoin Core, you may be affected by this issue if you have the RPC service enabled (default, with the headless bitcoind), and other users have access to run their own services on the same computer (either local or remote access). If you are the only user of the computer running your node, you are not affected. If you use the GUI but have not enabled the RPC service, you are not affected.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
CVE-2018–20587 is an Incorrect Access Control vulnerability that affects all currently released versions of Bitcoin Core. You may be affected by this issue if you have the RPC service enabled (default, with the headless bitcoind) and other users have access to run their own services on the same computer (either local or remote access). If you are the only user of the computer running your node, you are not affected. If you use the GUI but have not enabled the RPC service, you are not affected.
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

You can read more about the vulnerability here: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-20587

[#12763](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/12763) added the RPC whitelisting feature that helps enforce application policies for services being built on top of Bitcoin Core. It suggested to not connect your Bitcoin node to arbitrary services, reduce risk and prevent unintended access.

### Wallet

[Encrypting the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#encrypting-the-wallet)

[Backing Up the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#backing-up-the-wallet)

Do not buy _wallet.dat_ files from anywhere. There are several websites that sell such files to newbies. Scammers modify _wallet.dat_ file to include a bogus ckey record.

Understanding the difference between legacy and descriptor wallets:

Be careful with RPC commands like `dumpwallet`, `dumpprivkey`, and `listdescriptors` with the "private" argument set to true. These commands reveal private keys, which should never be shared with third parties.

> Be careful with commands like `importdescriptor` if suggested by third parties, which can control future addresses created for incoming payments

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Be careful with commands like `importdescriptor` if suggested by third parties, which can control future addresses created for incoming payments.
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

### Other

Be careful about accepting configuration changes and commands from third parties. Here is a non-exhaustive list of things that may go wrong:

> _*notify_ config and commandline options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
_*notify_ config and command line options accept shell commands to be based on different events in Bitcoin Core. Ensure that the commands are safe either by manual inspection or restrictions/alerts in the system used.
```

Author: Done in `088d99b5e5c9bfd907861ce68692e638ee56448d`

CVE-2018–20587 is an Incorrect Access Control vulnerability that affects all currently released versions of Bitcoin Core, You may be affected by this issue if you have the RPC service enabled (default, with the headless bitcoind), and other users have access to run their own services on the same computer (either local or remote access). If you are the only user of the computer running your node, you are not affected. If you use the GUI but have not enabled the RPC service, you are not affected.

You can read more about the vulnerability here: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-20587

[#12763](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/12763) added the RPC whitelisting feature that helps enforce application policies for services being built on top of Bitcoin Core. It suggested to not connect your Bitcoin node to arbitrary services, reduce risk and prevent unintended access.

### Wallet

[Encrypting the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#encrypting-the-wallet)

[Backing Up the Wallet](/doc/managing-wallets.md#backing-up-the-wallet)

> Do not buy _wallet.dat_ files from anywhere. There are several websites that sell such files to newbies. Scammers modify _wallet.dat_ file to include a bogus ckey record.

Reviewer: Maybe generalise this to not using untrusted wallet files?
